feat(fix): refine woostack-debug and create woostack-fix skill core (#257)
howarewoo/monorepo-template: skills/woostack-fix/SKILL.md

> ---

Author: **AGENTS.md counts not updated for new 15th public skill**

This PR adds `skills/woostack-fix/SKILL.md` as a new public skill and adds its routing row in `using-woostack/SKILL.md`, but AGENTS.md was not updated. AGENTS.md still states "The public command/adoption surface has fourteen skills" (it should now say fifteen) and its bulleted list omits `woostack-fix`. The rename constraint also says "Do not move or rename any of the sixteen `SKILL.md` files (the fourteen public command/adoption skills plus the internal `woostack-ideate` and `woostack-harden`)" -- there are now seventeen files (fifteen public + two internal), so both counts are stale. The Mode B trigger list in AGENTS.md also omits `/woostack-fix`, so the router will not load the new skill when the user invokes it by intent-equivalent wording.

Fix: Update AGENTS.md in this PR: (1) change "fourteen skills" to "fifteen skills" in the opening count, (2) add `woostack-fix` to the bulleted public list with a link to `skills/woostack-fix/SKILL.md`, (3) update the rename constraint to say seventeen SKILL.md files (fifteen public + two internal), and (4) add `/woostack-fix` to the Mode B trigger list. Also update README.md, CONTRIBUTING.md, and skills/woostack-bootstrap/references/development.md per the cross-file bookkeeping convention.

<sub>— <strong>HIGH · BLOCKING</strong> · flagged by the <code>conventions</code> agent</sub>

Author: Fixed in `2937f25`. Command-surface bookkeeping for the new 15th public skill, in lockstep per the bookkeeping convention: AGENTS.md (count 14→15, list bullet, fifteen-skill phrase, Mode B trigger, rename constraint 16→17 / 14→15 public, Quick file map), README.md (count+list+a /woostack-fix section — also added the pre-existing-missing woostack-tdd to reach fifteen), CONTRIBUTING.md (intro list + pointer-table rows for fix and tdd), and development.md (loop-summary row). The using-woostack routing row was already added in this PR.

---

# woostack-fix

## Overview

Drives a bug fix or a small technical change from diagnosis to implementation through a lightweight, unified loop. Fixes are smaller than features and combine the spec and the plan into a single markdown file under `.woostack/fixes/`.

```
diagnose root cause (woostack-debug) → write fix plan (fixes/ markdown) → harden fix plan 
  → approve fix plan (GATE) → execute (TDD: failing test → minimal fix → verify) 
  → commit (woostack-commit)
```

The skill has exactly **one** hard gate: **fix plan approval**. Because the plan contains both the diagnosis (the spec part) and the steps (the plan part), a single approval stop protects the codebase from wrong fixes or poor plans before implementation begins.

## Procedure

1. **Diagnose the root cause.**
   Run the systematic-debugging skill to find the root cause before proposing any code edits.
   ```
   /woostack-debug <target> --auto
   ```

>    Let it run its autonomous Phase 1-3. It will investigate the symptoms, trace data flow backward, and output a clear root-cause hypothesis and the necessary test case description. If it cannot find a root cause, do not guess: stop and ask the user for hints.

Author: **woostack-fix invokes debug --auto but expects only Phase 1-3**

Step 1 of `woostack-fix` calls `/woostack-debug <target> --auto` then states "Let it run its autonomous Phase 1-3." However, `woostack-debug --auto` is explicitly defined in this PR to "Run Phases 1–4 end to end autonomously" — Phase 4 (Handback) is the step that produces the root-cause summary, the proposed minimal fix, and the TDD context. By telling the agent that only Phases 1-3 run, the instruction creates a false expectation: agents following it will believe debug stopped before outputting the handback artifacts, and the output description ("root-cause hypothesis and the necessary test case description") also omits the proposed minimal fix that Phase 4 explicitly yields, which woostack-fix step 2 needs for the "## 2. Proposed Fix" section of the fix plan.

Fix: Change "Let it run its autonomous Phase 1-3" to "Let it run all four phases autonomously (Phases 1–4)." Also extend the output description to include the proposed minimal fix, e.g.: "It will investigate the symptoms, trace data flow backward, identify the root cause, propose a minimal fix, and provide TDD context. Carry the proposed fix forward into the fix plan's Proposed Fix section." This aligns with `woostack-debug`'s `--auto` contract and correctly sets the expectation that Phase 4 (Handback) — which produces the root-cause summary, proposed fix, and TDD context — is part of the automated run.

```suggestion
   Let it run all four phases autonomously (Phases 1–4). It will investigate the symptoms, trace data flow backward, identify the root cause, propose a minimal fix, and provide TDD context. Carry the proposed fix forward into the fix plan's Proposed Fix section. If it cannot find a root cause, do not guess: stop and ask the user for hints.
```

<sub>— <strong>HIGH · BLOCKING</strong> · flagged by the <code>bugs</code> agent</sub>

Author: Resolved as part of making woostack-debug autonomous-only (0a8267d). Step 1 now calls `/woostack-debug <target>` with no flag — autonomous is the only mode — and the wording covers all four phases, handing back the root-cause summary, the proposed minimal fix, and the TDD context that step 2's Proposed Fix section depends on. The stale "Phase 1-3" framing and the omitted proposed-fix output are both gone.

4. **Get explicit approval (GATE).**
   **Always present the written fix plan to the user and get explicit approval before executing** — this is a hard gate. Point the user at the file path, wait for a clear yes, and make any requested changes. When approved, set the frontmatter `status: approved`.

5. **Execute.**
   Create the feature branch named in the frontmatter (`git switch -c fix/<slug>` or `gt create fix/<slug>`). Set the frontmatter `status: executing` on the fix file.
   Work through the implementation plan tasks in order using TDD:
   - Implement the failing test first (confirm it fails).
   - Apply the minimal fix (no bundled refactoring, no "while I'm here" edits).
   - Run the tests and verify they pass.
   - Tick the checkboxes (`- [x]`) in the fix plan file as you complete each task.

6. **Commit and PR.**
   Stage the code changes, tests, and the modified fix plan. Invoke the commit skill:
   ```
   /woostack-commit
   ```

>    Ensure the resulting PR body includes the `Spec: .woostack/fixes/YYYY-MM-DD-<slug>.md` trailer so the status board attaches the PR to this fix. Once the PR is open, update the fix plan's frontmatter to `status: in-review`. (Once merged, it is `status: done`).

Author: **Nit: Spec: trailer path won't be matched by woostack-status board**

Step 6 instructs the agent to include a `Spec: .woostack/fixes/YYYY-MM-DD-<slug>.md` trailer in the PR body so "the status board attaches the PR to this fix". However, `skills/woostack-status/references/conventions.md` states the board exact-matches `specs/<basename>` in the PR body; a `fixes/<basename>` path will never match. Additionally, `woostack-commit` only writes a `Spec: .woostack/specs/<file>.md` trailer and will omit the trailer entirely when no spec under `.woostack/specs/` is found, meaning the `.woostack/fixes/` path will never be written by the commit skill at all. The downstream claim that the fix transitions to `status: done` once the PR is merged will also silently fail.

Fix: Either (a) update woostack-status conventions.md to also match `fixes/<basename>` paths and update woostack-commit to write the trailer from `.woostack/fixes/` when no spec is found, or (b) remove the claim that the status board attaches the PR and document that fix-flow tracking is manual (update frontmatter status by hand after merge).

<sub>— <strong>MEDIUM · NIT</strong> · flagged by the <code>bugs</code> agent</sub>

Author: Fixed in `2937f25`. Dropped the `Spec: .woostack/fixes/…` board-attach claim. Step 6 now states the fix file's frontmatter `status:` is the lifecycle source of truth — woostack-commit only writes `Spec: .woostack/specs/…` trailers and the status board exact-matches `specs/<basename>`, so a `fixes/` trailer was never written nor matched.
